[[Category:ArchivedInformation]]

== News in 2013 ==



===July 28, 2013 ===
Announcing the latest UDK2010 Release UDK2010.SR1.UP1.P1. Goto [[UDK2010| Download ]]  the release and documentation.
UDK2010.SR1.UP1.P1 release will deliver the remaining UEFI 2.3.1 support.  Specific details of what is new is contained in the [http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/UDK2010%20Releases/UDK2010.SR1.UP1.P1/UDK2010.SR1.UP1.P1-ReleaseNotes-MyWorkSpace.txt/download Release Notes].

=== June 6, 2013===

Please note that due to some infrastructure changes on
the sourceforge web site, most of the subversion urls
have changed. For more information, see the
[[2013 Subversion Change]] page.

=== March 7, 2013===

Announcing a new release of the Pre-EFI Initialization (PEI) 1.2  Self-Certification Test (SCT) utility that is used to perform self-certification testing on the PEI code.  Download: [http://sourceforge.net/projects/pi-sct/files/PI1.2_Sct_.2_Release_Mar_05_2013/PI1.2-SCT.2Release-Mar052013.zip/download PI1.2 SCT.2 Release.zip ]

=== March 4, 2013===

Update to the Documentation on Signing UEFI Applications and Drivers for UEFI Secure Boot. [http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/General%20Documentation/SigningUefiImages%20-v1dot31.pdf/download Signing UEFI Images.pdf V1.31].  This document describes how to sign UEFI images for the development and test of UEFI Secure Boot feature using the UDK2010.SR1.UP1 release and also provides an overview of the UEFI Secure Boot featue of UEFI 2.3.1C.   

*Version 1.31 
:Has reference to the Secure Boot Dual Boot videos on YouTube. 
:Add commands for generating PK with openssl.  
:Reference the UEFI CA KEK and DB certificates at Microsoft.com

See [[SecurityPkg]] for more documentation on security features with UDK2010 and UEFI.


=== February 5, 2013 ===

The [http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/tianocore/index.php?title=SecurityPkg#Signing_Tools Signing Tools] Section 
on the [[SecurityPkg]] page lists signing tools and resources for UEFI Secure Boot on Linux. It is far from an exhaustive list but hopefully will be a helpful starting point.



=== January 17, 2013 ===

Intel Green H - EDK1117 Patch Version 9
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/efidevkit/files/Releases/Others/Other%20Contribution/EDK1117_Client_Framework_PatchV9.zip/download Download Patch 9]
This package contains the full set of Green H files intended to be used for the ''Broadwell Platform'' and ''Bay Trail Platform'' (Intel Corporation Code names).
The configuration that will be utilized for platform validation is UEFI 2.3.1 and Framework 0.9x (without Framework HII).
This package does not contain the associated build tools required for UEFI 2.3.1 support. Further details are available from your Intel client BIOS support representative.  


=== January 15, 2013 ===
What are the [[Differences between UDK2010 and EDK II]]?


=== January 3, 2013===

Update to the Documentation on Signing UEFI Applications and Drivers for UEFI Secure Boot. [http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/General%20Documentation/SigningUefiImages%20-v1dot30.pdf/download Signing UEFI Images.pdf V1.3.0].  This document describes how to sign UEFI images for the development and test of UEFI Secure Boot feature using the UDK2010.SR1.UP1 release and also provides an overview of the UEFI Secure Boot featue of UEFI 2.3.1C.   Version 1.30 has Updates and clarifications related to UEFI Spec conformance regarding KEK and DB usages

See [[SecurityPkg]] for more documentation on security features with UDK2010 and UEFI.



== News in 2012 ==



=== July 24, 2012 ===

The [https://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/tianocore/index.php?title=UDK2010.SR1.IHV_Setup_Guide UDK2010 IHV Driver Developer Release] used with the [[UEFI Driver Wizard]] has been updated ([http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/UDK2010%20Releases/UDK2010.SR1.UP1/UDK2010.SR1.UP1.IHV.zip/download UDK2010.SR1.UP1.IHV]). Refer to the [http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/UDK2010%20Releases/UDK2010.SR1.UP1/UDK2010.SR1.UP1.IHV-ReleaseNotes.txt/download Release Notes] for more information.

=== July 17, 2012 ===

Update to the Documentation on Signing UEFI Applications and Drivers for UEFI Secure Boot. [http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/General%20Documentation/SigningUefiImages%20-v1dot21.pdf/download Signing UEFI Images.pdf V1.2.1]
This document describes how to sign UEFI images for the development and test of UEFI Secure Boot feature using the UDK2010.SR1.UP1 release and also provides an overview of the UEFI Secure Boot featue of UEFI 2.3.1C
<br>
See [[SecurityPkg]] for more documentation on security features with UDK2010 and UEFI.



===July 11, 2012 ===
The following section has been added to support for Authenticode-signed UEFI images with multiple signatures, references sample certificates and images and  also describes  patches to enable this support

[[http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/tianocore/index.php?title=SecurityPkg#Images_with_Multiple_Signatures SecurityPkg Multiple Signatures]]



===June 26, 2012 ===
Updates to the EDK II specifications Errata B
*[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/Build_Spec_v1.22_Errata_B.pdf/download  BUILD v1.22 Errata B]
*[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/DEC_Spec_v1.22_Errata_B.pdf/download  DEC v1.22 Errata B]
*[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/DSC_Spec_v1.22_Errata_B.pdf/download  DSC v1.22 Errata B]
*[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/FDF_Spec_v1.22_Errata_B.pdf/download  FDF v1.22 Errata B]
*[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/INF_Spec_v1.22_Errata_B.pdf/download  INF v1.22 Errata B]



===June 25, 2012 ===
Announcing the latest UDK2010 Release UDK2010.SR1.UP1. Goto [[UDK2010| Download ]]  the release and documentation.
UDK2010.SR1.UP1 release will deliver the remaining UEFI 2.3.1 support that was deferred from UDK2010.SR1 release because of no logo requirement need. In addition, any logo requirements which have been clarified, deleted, changed, or added between November 1st and December 22, 2011 have been incorporated. Specific details of what is new is contained in the [http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/UDK2010%20Releases/UDK2010.SR1.UP1/UDK2010.SR1.UP1-ReleaseNotes-MyWorkSpace.txt/download Release Notes].


===June 11, 2012 ===
Update to the VFR specification reference manual for developers adopting the VFR language to create products compliant with UEFI 2.3.1. It offers examples of how to export setup-related information to the Human Interface Infrastructure (HII) programming interface. 
[https://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/VFR_V1.7.pdf/download VFR Programming Language v 1.7]


=== May 23, 2012 ===

New Online web-based training available on the [[UEFI_EDKII_Learning_Dev| UEFI EDK II Learning and Development page]] These courses are provided to help you increase your knowledge of UEFI and EDK II and to aid you in performing UEFI- and EDK II-related tasks.

===March 6, 2012===
Check out the new [[Driver_Developer|UEFI Driver Developer Resources with EDK II]] page, including the latest [http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/EDK%20II%20Releases/Driver_Developer/UEFI%20Driver_Writer_Guide_V1.0.1_120308.pdf/download UEFI Driver Writer's Guide] (v1.01) and the new [http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/EDK%20II%20Releases/Driver_Developer/UefiDriverWizard.msi/download UEFI Driver Wizard].

===March 6, 2012===
We are applying to participate in the [[GSoC2012|Google Summer of Code]]
program again this year!

For more information, visit the [[GSoC2012]] page or join in on our
discussion on [[edk2-devel]].

===Jan 2, 2012===
UDK2010.SR1 Release is now available at [[UDK2010| Download ]] This is the latest UEFI Development Kit 2010 SR1 that supports UEFI 2.3.1 and PI 1.2 Specifications.  Added Work Space Expanded version Jan 4, 2012



== News in 2011 ==



*'''Dec 19, 2011'''

EDK II Build specifications update Final release for UDK2010.SR1 [[EDK_II_Specifications| Download]]


*'''Nov 9, 2011'''

'''UDK2010 [[RoadMap]] Update''' - Look for the upcoming UDK2010.SR1 Release to be available after '''Jan 3, 2012'''. This release will support the Microsoft® Windows® 8 Secure Boot feature. Also look for EDK II Build System updates and updates to the Build Specifications. [[RoadMap|Details]] 


[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/EDK%20II%20Releases/UEFI_Packing_Tool/Intel_UEFI_Packing_Tool.zip/download Intel® UPT.zip] Intel® UEFI Packaging Tool Release with Quick Start guide .PDF [http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/EDK%20II%20Releases/UEFI_Packing_Tool/UEFI-PackagingToolQuickStartGuide_1.0.pdf/download Quick Start Guide only]

*May 17, 2011
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/EDK%20II%20Releases/EADK/EADK_A2_Release.zip/download Edk II Application Development Kit (EADK) - A2]
EDK II Application Development Kit for include the Standard C Libraries in UEFI Shell Applications


*April 21, 2011
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/EDK%20II%20Releases/EDK%20II%20Shell/EDKII_UEFI_Shell_2.0_ShellPkg_Rel_1.0.zip/download UEFI Shell 2.0 Spec package Sources]
EDK II Sources for the UEFI Shell 2.0 Spec. Package Release 1.0 - Verified and tested

*April 11, 2011
The [http://www.uefi.org/specs UEFI Specification] 2.3.1 is now available.



== News in 2010 ==

'''****April 23, 2010****'''

The transition of the UEFI Open Source Community Website to the new hosting (via Sourceforge), has settled down in the past weeks, and for all intents and purposes the move is complete. 

During this time, there have been several new additions to the content on this website.

In the EDK II project, in the subversion repository, there have many updates and new features added to the EDK II code since the first of the year.   

Also, there have been updates to much of the documentation in the EDK II project, including the General Documentation and the addition of a new folder for Technical Information.

This has been an exciting time for the UEFI Open Source Community and this website.  

The administrators would like to thank the members of the community for their understanding and patience during this transition period.


'''**** UPDATE February 05, 2010 ****'''

Site Transition – February 05, 2010 – 

The use of the URL www.tianocore.org is now linked to this site (when accessed as http://, there are still some issues using https:// which are undergoing resolution).

News – February 05, 2010 – 

There has been an update on the "How to Contribute" Page.  The basic contributor can now submit contributions via the Developer's discussion list for a project, rather than a contribution list.  This was done to streamline the overall number of discussion groups.


'''**** UPDATE February 02, 2010 ****'''

Site Transition – February 02, 2010 – 

The original hosting for The UEFI Open Source Community Website is off line.

This site is now the operational support for the UEFI Open Source Community Website.

The projects have been transferred, and all sources are now available.

The discussion groups are still in the process of migration. 

The link of the URL: Tianocore.org will be linking to this site in the near future.


'''**** UPDATE January 21, 2010 ****'''

Site Transition – Downtime January 21, 2010 – 

The original hosting for The UEFI Open Source Community Website is now locked down and will be off line soon.  

This is the new hosting site.

The transition team is finishing the moves of the data (files, svn repositories, pages, etc) to this new hosted site.  

You can access the data read only mode as it becomes available.  We are verifying the project and its contents, so it will be a few days before write access becomes available to the site members (including discussion forums).

Please use this time to register with Sourceforge as an user, so we can expedite your access to the projects when write access becomes available on projects.

Questions can be sent directly to the administrators on this site.

Thank you, 


The Administrators



'''**** UPDATE January 14, 2010 ****'''

SITE TRANSITION—DOWNTIME January 21—Your action required

The transition of The UEFI Open Source Community Website (URL: www.tianocore.org) is underway, and the members of this community should be aware of the following events:


January 14, 2010 – This message update and Email has been posted on the website and transmitted to the UEFI Open Source Community members.


January 19, 2010 – The UEFI Open Source Community Website in its current form will be ‘Locked down’ to Read only access for the community membership.  This is to provide the transfer team time and opportunity to gather content from the current site and transfer it to the new site, without updates occurring in the process.

 

January 21, 2010 – Will be the last day that this version of the UEFI Open Source Community Website will be available.  On midnight between 01/21/2010 and 01/22/2010, the current hosting of the website will end, and the content will not be available. 

 

January 22, 2010 – The new UEFI Open Source Community Website will be available on the new hosting site.  The new hosting will be part of the Sourceforge community (sourceforge.net), and will be available through the following link: 

www.tianocore.Sourceforge.net

 

As well as www.tianocore.org once the DNS transfer takes place. There will be a slight delay between this event and the transfer ot the DNS for the URL:www.tianocore.org to transfer from the current site to the new site, during that time, the link may appear broken.  The transfer team will be focused on making this timeframe as small as possible, but please be aware that this may be the case.

 

The following information should answer some of the most obvious questions about this change:

 

1)      User accounts:

We are currently working on a process of converting the current UEFI Open Source Community Website accounts to Sourceforge compatible accounts. 

ACTION REQUIRED: Before the transition, we will furnish a process for your SourceForge accounts. Please watch for this information and follow the instructions as soon as they are available.

2)      Site Content:

After January 21. 2010, the new site will have all content originally provided in the previous site.  This includes SVN, Downloads, discussion groups and boards, and information pages.

Thank you,

The Administrators

Previous message (December 09, 2009)

The UEFI Open Source Community Website (URL: www.tianocore.org) will be going through some updates and changes.

This site has been using the same format and interfaces since its inception in 2004, and it is time for an update.

These changes will not impact the functionality of the site, and the transition team is focused upon retaining all site content and context as part of the process. The administrators of this site will do everything possible to make the process as smooth and seamless as possible over the next weeks. We apologize if this process causes any difficulty for the membership of the UEFI Open Source Community website.

We will be providing news updates here as the process progresses.

Thank you,

The Administrators


== News in 2009 ==


'''December 01, 2009'''

The Sun VirtualBox* version 3.1.0 is now available with experimental support for EFI (UEFI).   This virtualization product demonstrates the growing interest of UEFI in the industry. 

This product was leveraged upon the development of the OVMF (Open Virtual Machine Firmware) release in the EDK II project (see here).

(For further information on Sun VirtualBox* version 3.1.0 see here)

* Other names and brands may be claimed as property of others


'''October 09, 2009'''

The "[[How To Contribute | Getting Started as a Contributor]] " page has been updated with more information defining the term contribution and establishing the difference between participation and Contribution.

These updates have been provided to help establish an understanding of the process of contribution submission, and to encourage more members of the UEFI Open Source Community Website to become contributors to the overall community.

'''August 14, 2009'''

New On This site!: The official release of the EDK II Core Stable Release (Version 0.90).

This release represents the latest milestone in the current EDK II development.  The modules in this release have undergone testing and evaluation of code content, style, documentation, and functionality beyond any previous version of the EDKII.

For more information, please refer to the EDK II Project home page .

Also included in this release is the online documentation for the MdePkg 1.01, available directly from the website (here ).

'''August 12, 2009'''

New On This site: The Getting Started as a Contributor page has been updated with the process for contributing “third party contributions” to the UEFI Open Source Community Website.

This process answers some recent procedural questions by contributors wishing to contribute works derived from sources provided by another open source community or project.

''' July 27, 2009'''

New On This site: The latest release of the Intel (R) 1 and 10 GbE NIC driver sources on the EDK project.

These drivers support the newer versions of Intel(R) NIC devices.  They are provided as version 3.9.03 for the 1GbE and 1.7.09 for the 10GbE driver.

For the download packages, please refer to the EDK Projects Documents and Files (other contribution) Page .

'''June 14, 2009'''

New On This site!: The official release of the MdePkg version 1.00 and supporting components.

The MdePkg provides developers working on UEFI Applications, UEFI Drivers, UEFI Operating System Loaders, UEFI diagnostics, and UEFI Platform Initialization (PI) compliant silicon modules with a solid UEFI and PI compliant foundation from which to develop their modules under EDK II. This is the first complete version of the MdePkg Package for distribution. This version of this package is a significant milestone in the EDK II development and as other packages reach this level of completeness, we will be providing them on this site as 1.00 releases as well.

For more information, please refer to the EDK II Project home page .

'''May 27, 2009'''

On This site!: The Open Virtual Machine Firmware (OVMF) project is the latest addition to the EDK II source repository. This new project is an effort to support Virtual Machines using the EDK II code base, with features like:

* Open Source (BSD licensed ) virtual machine libraries and drivers
* A firmware implementation which supports UEFI on open source virtual machines. 
** Initially targeting the QEMU VM.

 

For more information, please refer to the OVMF web page.
'''
May 07, 2009'''

On This site!: The EDKII ShellPkg (alpha) has been released for testing and comment by members of the community. This contains headers for protocols, libraries, GUIDS, and other Shell specific items. This also includes a EDK II Shell Application Library instance that allows for Shell Applications to be compiled in EDK II. Future enhancements include adding UEFI Shell 2.0 shell and general improvements.

'''April 20, 2009'''

On This site!: The EDKII Module Writer’s Guide Version 0.01 has been added to the Documents and files of the EDK II project page. This is a guideline for EDK II module developers, providing detailed instructions on how to develop and build a new modules and release with a package. These drivers can be found in the EDK II project under “Document & files” in "General Documentation".

'''April 09, 2009'''

On This site!: The Sources for the Intel GbE (PCI/PCI-X and PCI-E) and 10GbE (PCI/PCI-X and PCI-E) EFI drivers have been updated to include new improvements and fixes. These drivers can be found in the EDK project under “Document & files” in "Releases -> Others -> Other Contribution".

'''March 30, 2009'''

Insyde Software and American Megatrends (AMI) announced new UEFI-compliant firmware for new Intel(r) Xeon(r) Processor 5500 Series. AMI states that their firmware is based on the Intel(r) Platform Innovation Framework for UEFI. Read full details from AMI and from Insyde.

'''March 3&4, 2009'''

Insyde Software, American Megatrends (AMI), and Phoenix all announced new UEFI-compliant firmware for new Intel(r) Atom(tm) Processor Z5xx Series Platform. Insyde and AMI state that their firmware is based on the Intel(r) Platform Innovation Framework for UEFI. Read full details from AMI, from Insyde, and from Phoenix.