<!-- [[Category:EDKIIBuildTools]] -->
= Install and configure a SVN client =
Any SVN client software package will enable you to get the source code for the [[edk2-buildtools| EDK II Build Tools]] and do all the required development.

{{TortoiseSvnInstructions}}

= More about SVN=
*Subversion’s Home page is: http://subversion.apache.org/
*The Subversion Book is available on-line at: http://svnbook.red-bean.com/
*For user’s who are familiar with CVS, “Subversion for CVS Users” by Mike Mason, Mar 2004, is available: http://osdir.com/Article203.phtml

= Getting the extra tools=
== Compiler ==
For both the BuildTools and [http://www.tianocore.org/edk2/ EDK II] projects, you will need to obtain a compiler from somewhere else. These instructions do not cover obtaining or installation of a compiler tools chain. The BuildTools projects only requires a C compiler; an assembler or ACPI assembler are not required to build tools in this project. BaseTools assume that a compiler is already configured in the environment.

== Python ==
The BaseTools project supports the Makefile based build for EDK II. All Tools are written in either C or Python. The C tools must compile on all operating systems with various compilers, so the code is written using simple, standard functions and libraries. The Python-based tools are written assuming the features that were available in Python. GUI applications can be created in Python, using the wxPython package and all Python applications can be converted to run under a native OS (Windows, Linux or OS/X.) via the [[Python Tools]].

The tools in this section are NOT required to build the EDK II project; they are needed to compile the
BaseTools used to build the EDK II project.

The Python tools are available in the DevelopmentTools folder, available via SVN. Be sure to check-out the appropriate tool set for your OS.

*Linux and OS/X developers using a command line, create a directory that will be used to hold the files, then change to that directory. 
**Replace URL with apropriate one from [[Python Tools]]. Installation and configuration for these tools are left to the developer.
*The command line for obtaining these files is:
'''svn co <URL>'''

{{TortoiseSvnCheckout|https://edk2-buildtools.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/edk2-buildtools/trunk/BaseTools}}

Refer to documentation in either the UserManuals or Source folders for more information.

'''You are now ready to start working with the BaseTools!'''