__NOTOC__
=Common EDK II Build Instructions for Linux=

These instructions assume you have installed Linux packages required for an [[EDK II]] build environment, including git (example: [https://github.com/tianocore/tianocore.github.io/wiki/Using-EDK-II-with-Native-GCC#Ubuntu_1604_LTS__Ubuntu_1610|Ubuntu 16.04/16.10]). The following instructions are common to the majority of Linux environments.

===Get the edk2 source tree using Git ===

<pre>
bash$ mkdir ~/src
bash$ cd ~/src
bash$ git clone https://github.com/tianocore/edk2
</pre>

Note: the 'git clone' command above pulls the latest code from edk2. If you want to work from a stable release, specify a release tag when cloning. Example:

<pre>
bash$ git clone https://github.com/tianocore/edk2.git vUDK2017
</pre>

===Compile build tools ===

<pre>
bash$ cd ~/src/edk2
bash$ make -C BaseTools
bash$ . edksetup.sh
</pre>

When the above steps are done, you can work in the edk2 directory for code development.

===Build the EDK II BaseTools===

<pre>
bash$ make -C edk2/BaseTools
</pre>

===Setup build shell environment===

<pre>
bash$ cd ~/src/edk2
bash$ export EDK_TOOLS_PATH=$HOME/src/edk2/BaseTools
bash$ . edksetup.sh BaseTools
</pre>

===Modify Conf Files===

Running <code>edksetup.sh</code> populates the <code>edk2/Conf</code> directory with default configuration files. You will need to edit the <code>Conf/target.txt</code> file to set the build platform, target architecture, tool chain, and multi-threading options. The example below is based on building the <code>MdeModulePkg</code> using GCC5.

====Set Build Target Information====

For the <code>Conf/target.txt</code> file, find the following lines:

<pre>
ACTIVE_PLATFORM       = Nt32Pkg/Nt32Pkg.dsc
TOOL_CHAIN_TAG        = MYTOOLS
</pre>

And change the corresponding lines to match these:

<pre>
ACTIVE_PLATFORM       = MdeModulePkg/MdeModulePkg.dsc
TOOL_CHAIN_TAG        = GCC5
</pre>

:Note: The <code>gcc --version</code> command can be used to find out your GCC version.  Use the '''GCC45''' toolchain for gcc 4.5.* and the '''GCC46''' toolchain for gcc 4.6.*.

:Note: for GCC5 please install the gcc-5 package. Example for Ubuntu: <code>sudo apt-get install gcc-5</code>

Locate the TARGET_ARCH setting:

<pre>
TARGET_ARCH           = IA32
</pre>

Change this reflect the build architecture for the final UEFI binary.

:Example: <code>X64</code>, <code>IA32 X64</code> (which will build both architectures).

Optional: enable multi-threaded build. The default value for <code>MAX_CONCURRENT_THREAD_NUMBER</code> is 1, which disables multi-threaded build. Change this value based on your system's multi-threading capabilities. The formula is '1 + (2 x processor threads)'.

:Example: for an Intel Core i5 (two processor cores w/ hyperthreading), the value is <code>9</code>.

===Build Hello World!  (and the rest of MdeModulePkg)===

Now you should be able to simply run the build command to compile <code>MdeModulePkg</code>.

<pre>
bash$ build
</pre>

One result of the build is that you should have the HelloWorld UEFI application:
<pre>
bash$ ls Build/MdeModule/DEBUG_*/*/HelloWorld.efi
</pre>

===Build [[OVMF]]===

Once your build environment is set up you might be interested in [[How to build OVMF|building the OVMF platform]] which is included in the main [[EDK II]] source tree.  Since [[OVMF]] builds a full system firmware image, this may be of interest to UEFI system firmware developers.
