Frequently asked questions about DEC

===What is in the DSC vs DEC vs INF—what is each and why, overlap?===
There are specifications for each of these build description files on tianocore.org: http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications  

===How many DEC and DSC are in a build?===
There is one DSC per Build but each package can have its own DSC. All packages must have a DEC file.  The minimum content required in a DEC file is the [Defines] section. Also every platform package must have a DSC/FDF file to build a firmware image for the platforms FLASH/ROM. Non-platform packages typically have a DSC files to verify that the libraries and modules in that package can build properly for all supports CPU Architectures, all supported development Operating Systems, and all supported Tool Chains.

===Can the DEC compile packages?===
The DEC file declares Protocols, PPIs, GUIDs, Library Classes, and PCDs. It is not used directly to compile the contents of a package.  Instead, the build system uses the declared contents of DEC files when building libraries/modules that reference the Protocols, PPIs, GUIDs, Library Classes, or PCDs that are declared in that DEC file. Module and Library INF files have a [Packages] section. The [Packages] section lists the set of packages that the Module or Library depends on to build.  If a Module or Library uses a Protocol, PPI, GUID, Library Class, or PCD from a package, then the DEC file for that package must be listed in the INF file for that Module or Library.

===What is DEC publishing?===
The DEC of a package will publish protocols for consuming, PCDs that can be manipulated by other packages, Libraries and GUIDs. The DEC file declares Protocols, PPIs, GUIDs, Library Classes, and PCDs. 

[[category:FAQ]]
[[category:EDKII]]
[[category:DEC]]
[[category:Package]]