==Frequently asked questions about DEC==

===How is DSC different from DEC vs INF?===

The [https://github.com/tianocore/tianocore.github.io/wiki/EDK-II-Specifications#dec| EDK II Declaration (DEC)] file format supports the building, packaging, and distribution of EDK II modules.  The [https://github.com/tianocore/tianocore.github.io/wiki/EDK-II-Specifications#dsc| EDK II Platform Description file (DSC)] format describes a platform, which is (basically) a collection of DSC files. The [https://github.com/tianocore/tianocore.github.io/wiki/EDK-II-Specifications#inf| EDK II build information (INF)] file format describes how to build a single EDK II component, which generates a .EFI file. 

For more info on DEC, please review the specification: https://www.gitbook.com/book/edk2-docs/edk-ii-dec-specification/details

===How many DEC and DSC files are in a build?===

There is one DSC per Build but each package can have its own DSC. All packages must have a DEC file.  The minimum content required in a DEC file is the [Defines] section. Also every platform package must have a DSC/FDF file to build a firmware image for the platforms FLASH/ROM. Non-platform packages typically have a DSC files to verify that the libraries and modules in that package can build properly for all supports CPU Architectures, all supported development Operating Systems, and all supported Tool Chains.

===Can the DEC compile packages?===

The DEC file declares Protocols, PPIs, GUIDs, Library Classes, and PCDs. It is not used directly to compile the contents of a package.  Instead, the build system uses the declared contents of DEC files when building libraries/modules that reference the Protocols, PPIs, GUIDs, Library Classes, or PCDs that are declared in that DEC file. Module and Library INF files have a [Packages] section. The [Packages] section lists the set of packages that the Module or Library depends on to build.  If a Module or Library uses a Protocol, PPI, GUID, Library Class, or PCD from a package, then the DEC file for that package must be listed in the INF file for that Module or Library.

===What is DEC publishing?===
The DEC of a package will publish protocols for consuming, PCDs that can be manipulated by other packages, Libraries and GUIDs. The DEC file declares Protocols, PPIs, GUIDs, Library Classes, and PCDs. 

<!-- [[category:FAQ]] -->
<!-- [[category:EDKII]] -->
<!-- [[category:DEC]] -->
<!-- [[category:Package]] -->