{{UDK2010}}

<!-- [[Category:EDKII]] -->
<!-- [[Category:UDK2010]] -->

'''Frequently asked questions about the differences between UDK2010 and EDK II'''

===What is the difference between UDK2010 and EDK II?===
*	[http://www.tianocore.org/edk2/ EDK II] is the open source project for which volunteers (contributors) participate in development. The tip of this project is being developed and updated contanstantly for fixes and enhancements.
*	UDK2010 is NOT maintained by volunteer. UDK2010 is a fully validated implementation by Intel for a specific revision of the EDK II source. The latest [[UDK2010]] Release Notes denotes the SVN revision used for each of the validated UDK2010 releases.
*	Intel makes the [[UDK2010]] release available on tianocore.sourceforge.net as a complete tree of the open source Intel validated (compressed into a single ZIP file).
* UDK2010 contains a validated subset of the packages available from the EDK II project.

===How do other 3rd party companies use UDK2010?===
* Other 3rd party companies, including BIOS vendors use the UEFI conformant BIOS implementation based on the UDK2010 which Intel validates.
*   See also the Intel UEFI community for more information http://www.intel.com/udk

===UDK2010 is stable===
* It is NOT “always changed.” The last release of [[UDK2010]] was UDK2010.SR1.UP1 25 June 2012. 
* The NEXT release of UDK2010 is being discussed and will include any updates those that use it have requested to be included. The release cadence will likely be, perhaps, once every six months – completely dependent upon what feedback comes in from the open source community and customers that use it.