== '''EDK II Specifications'''==


<div class="t_projects">

<table>
<tr>
    <th colspan="4" style="background-color:#a9c6dd">EDK II Specifications</th>
</tr>
    <tr>
        <th>Specification Download </th>
        <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
<tr></tr>

<tr>
<td>
'''DEC''' 

[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/DEC_Spec_1.24A.pdf/download Errata A PDF]
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/DEC_Spec_1.24A.zip/download   ZIP]

</td>
<td>
EDK II DEC File Spec v1.24 <br>
This document describes the EDK II build information (DEC) file format and it contains the proposal for the Errata updates that will be available with the latest UDK2014 releases. See details in the Revision History in the document for more details. 

* Update Jan 2015
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
'''INF'''-

[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/INF_Spec_1.24A.pdf/download Errata A PDF] or

[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/INF_Spec_1.24A.zip/download   ZIP]

</td>
<td>
 EDK II INF File Spec  V1.24 
<br>
This document describes the EDK II build information (INF) file format and it contains the proposal for the Errata updates that will be available with the latest UDK2014 releases. See details in the Revision History in the document for more details.

* Update Jan 2015
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
'''BUILD'''
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/Build_Spec_1.24.pdf/download PDF] or
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/Build_Spec_1.24.zip/download ZIP]

</td>

    <td>
EDK II BUILD Spec  V1.24 - <br>
This document describes the EDK II build information for the (BUILD) specification and it contains the proposal for the Errata updates that will be available with the UDK2014 releases. See details in the Revision History in the document for more details. 
* Update January 2015
</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td>
'''DSC'''

[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/DSC_Spec_1.24.pdf/download PDF] or
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/DSC_Spec_1.24.zip/download ZIP]

</td>
<td>
EDK II DSC File Spec v1.24 <br>
This document describes the EDK II build information (DSC) file format and it contains the proposal for the Errata updates that will be available with the UDK2014 releases. See details in the Revision History in the document for more details.

* Update January 2015
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
'''FDF'''

[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/FDF_Spec_1.24.pdf/download PDF] or
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/FDF_Spec_1.24.zip/download ZIP]

</td>
<td>
EDK II FDF File Spec v1.24 <br>
This document describes the EDK II build information (FDF) file format and it contains the proposal for the Errata updates that will be available with the UDK2014 release. See details in the Revision History in the document for more details.

* Update January 2015
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
'''UNI'''  
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/UNI_File_Spec_v1.2.pdf/download PDF]
or
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/UNI_File_Spec_v1.2.zip/download ZIP]

</td>
<td>
EDK II UNI Unicode File Specification V1.2 <br>
This document describes the EDK II build information (UNI) file format . See details in the Revision History in the document for more details.
* Update Jan 2015 
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
''' Expression Syntax'''  
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/ExpressionSyntax_1.1.pdf/download PDF] 
or
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/ExpressionSyntax_1.1.zip/download ZIP]

</td>
<td>
EDK II Expression Syntax Specification V1.1 <br>
This document describes the syntax of expression statements for EDK II Meta-data files used in data fields, feature flag expressions and conditional directive statements

* Update Jan 2015 
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
'''VFR'''
[https://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/VFR_V1.7.pdf/download PDF]
</td>
<td>
VFR Programming Language v 1.7  <br>
To simplify the creation of Internal Forms Representation (IFR), 
a high-level Visual Forms Representation (VFR) language is
described in this document.
Using this language syntax, a compiler can be designed to take an ordinary text file containing VFR as an input, and output IFR for use in a user’s program. There are various methods to define the VFR language. 

* Update June 11, 2012


</td>
</tr>




<tr>
<td>
[https://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/PCD_Infrastructure.pdf/download PCD  PDF]
</td>
<td>
Platform Configuration Database Infrastructure Description v 0.55 <br>
This document discusses the mechanisms and configuration entries required

to make it easy to write portable silicon modules and to port the Framework

from platform to platform. 
</td>


</tr>
<tr>
   <td>
EDK II C Coding Standards
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Specifications/EDK2_C_Coding_Standards_2_0.pdf/download  PDF]
   </td>
   <td>
EDK II C Coding Standards Specification<br>



The EDK II C Coding Standards Specification establishes a set of rules intended not as a
constraint, but as an enabling philosophy which will:
* Establish uniformity of style.
* Set minimum information content requirements.
* Allow all programmers to easily understand the code.
* Facilitate support tasks by establishing uniform conventions.
* Ease documentation efforts by embedding the design documentation in the code.
* Reduce customer and new employee learning curves by providing accurate code documentation and uniform style.

These rules apply to all code developed
   </td>
</tr> 
<tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
</tr> 
<tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
</tr> 
<tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
</tr> 
<tr>
   <td>
   </td>
   <td>
   </td>
</tr> 
<tr>
<th colspan="4" style="background-color:#ffffff">Archived EDK II Specifications  [[EDK_II_Specifications_Archived| Download]]
</th>
</tr>
</table>


