== '''EDK II Specifications'''==

This page contains the released versions of the EDK II Specifications.
The latest draft versions of the EDK II Specification can be found on the 
[https://github.com/tianocore/tianocore.github.io/wiki/EDK-II-Draft-Specification EDK II Draft Specification]
page.

<div class="t_projects">

<table>
<tr>
    <th colspan="4" style="background-color:#a9c6dd">EDK II Specifications</th>
</tr>
    <tr>
        <th>Specification Download </th>
        <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
<tr></tr>
<tr>
<td>
'''FDF Draft'''  
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/FDF_Spec_1_27_Review_Draft.pdf PDF]
</td>
<td>
EDK II FDF File Spec v1.27  DRAFT for Review- <BR>
This document describes the EDK II Flash Description (FDF) file format. This format was designed to support new build requirements of building EDK and EDK II modules within the EDK II build infrastructure.
The EDK II Build Infrastructure supports generation of current Unified EFI, Inc. (UEFI 2.6 and PI 1.4) compliant binary images.
The FDF file is used to describe the content and layout of binary images. Binary images described in this file may be any combination of boot images, capsule images or PCI Options ROMs.
* Update Sept 2016 (DRAFT)
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
'''UNI'''  
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/UNI_File_Spec_v1.3.pdf PDF] or
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/UNI_File_Spec_v1.3.zip ZIP]
</td>
<td>
Multi-String UNI Unicode File Specification V1.3  - <br>
This document describes the Multi-String build information (UNI) file format . See details in the Revision History in the document for more details.
* Update March 2016 
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
'''BUILD'''
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/Build_Spec_1_26.pdf  PDF] or
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/Build_Spec_1_26.zip  ZIP]
</td>

    <td>
EDK II BUILD Spec  V1.26 - <br>
This document describes the EDK II Build Architecture. This specification was designed
to support new build requirements for building EDK II modules and EDK components
within the EDK II build infrastructure as well as to generate binary firmware images and
Unified Extensible Firmware Image (UEFI) applications.
* Update Jan 2016
</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td>
'''DSC'''

[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/DSC_Spec_1_26.pdf PDF] or
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/DSC_Spec_1_26.zip ZIP]

</td>
<td>
EDK II DSC File Spec v1.26 - <br>
This document describes the EDK II Platform Description file (DSC) format. The EDK Build Tools are included as part of the EDK II compatibility package. In order to use EDK II Modules or the EDK II Build Tools, an EDK II DSC and FDF file must be used.<br>
EDK II tools use INI style text based files to describe components, platforms and firmware volumes. While similar to EDK DSC files, the EDK II DSC file format is different, and new utilities have been provided to process these files.<br>
The EDK II Build Infrastructure supports creation of binary images that comply with Unified EFI (UEFI) 2.5 and UEFI Platform Infrastructure (PI) 1.4 specifications.
* Update Jan 2016
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>
'''FDF'''

[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/FDF_Spec_1_26.pdf PDF] or
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/FDF_Spec_1_26.zip ZIP]

</td>
<td>
EDK II FDF File Spec v1.26 - <br>
This document describes the EDK II Flash Description (FDF) file format. This format was designed to support new build requirements of building EDK and EDK II modules within the EDK II build infrastructure.<br>
The EDK II Build Infrastructure supports generation of current Unified EFI, Inc. (UEFI 2.5 and PI 1.4) compliant binary images.<br>
The FDF file is used to describe the content and layout of binary images. Binary images described in this file may be any combination of boot images, capsule images or PCI Options ROMs.

* Update Jan 2016
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
'''DEC''' 
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/DEC_Spec_1_25.pdf PDF] or
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/DEC_Spec_1_25.zip ZIP]

</td>
<td>
EDK II DEC File Spec v1.25 - <br>
This document describes the EDK II Declaration (DEC) file format. This format was designed to support building packaging and distribution of EDK II modules, as well as for building platforms and modules using the EDK II build infrastructure. EDK II declaration files may be created during installation of a distribution that follows the UEFI Platform Initialization Distribution Package Specification. They may also be created manually.<br>
The EDK II Build Infrastructure supports generation of UEFI 2.5 and PI 1.4 (Unified EFI, Inc.) compliant binary images. 

* Update Jan 2016
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
'''INF'''

[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/INF_Spec_1_25.pdf PDF] or
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/INF_Spec_1_25.zip ZIP]


</td>
<td>
 EDK II INF File Spec  V1.25 -
<br>
This document describes the EDK II build information (INF) file format. This format supports the new build requirements of build EDK components and EDK II modules within the EDK II build infrastructure.<br>
The EDK II Build Infrastructure supports creation of binary images that comply with Unified EFI (UEFI) 2.5 and UEFI Platform Infrastructure (PI) 1.4 specifications.

* Update Jan 2016
</td>
</tr>


<tr>
<td>
''' Expression Syntax'''  
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/ExpressionSyntax_1.1.pdf PDF] 
or
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/ExpressionSyntax_1.1.zip ZIP]

</td>
<td>
EDK II Expression Syntax Specification V1.1  - <br>
This document describes the syntax of expression statements for EDK II Meta-data files used in data fields, feature flag expressions and conditional directive statements

* Update Jan 2015 
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
'''VFR'''
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/VFR_1_9.pdf PDF] or
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/VFR_1_9.zip ZIP]

</td>
<td>
VFR Programming Language v 1.9 -  <br>
To simplify the creation of Internal Forms Representation (IFR), 
a high-level Visual Forms Representation (VFR) language is
described in this document.
Using this language syntax, a compiler can be designed to take an ordinary text file containing VFR as an input, and output IFR for use in a user’s program. There are various methods to define the VFR language. 

* Update July 2015

</td>
</tr>




<tr>
<td>
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/PCD_Infrastructure.pdf PCD  PDF]
</td>
<td>
Platform Configuration Database Infrastructure Description v 0.55 - <br>
This document discusses the mechanisms and configuration entries required

to make it easy to write portable silicon modules and to port the Framework

from platform to platform. 

* April 2009
</td>


</tr>
<tr>
   <td>
EDK II C Coding Standards 
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/Specifications/CCS_2_1_Draft.pdf 2.1 Draft PDF]
   </td>
   <td>
EDK II C Coding Standards Specification 2.1 Draft - <br>



The EDK II C Coding Standards Specification establishes a set of rules intended not as a
constraint, but as an enabling philosophy which will:
* Establish uniformity of style.
* Set minimum information content requirements.
* Allow all programmers to easily understand the code.
* Facilitate support tasks by establishing uniform conventions.
* Ease documentation efforts by embedding the design documentation in the code.
* Reduce customer and new employee learning curves by providing accurate code documentation and uniform style.

These rules apply to all code developed

* Oct 2015
   </td>
</tr> 

<th colspan="4" style="background-color:#ffffff">Archived EDK II Specifications  [[EDK-II-Specifications-Archived | Download]]
</th>

</tr>

</table>

