
<div class="t_projects">
<table>
<tr><th colspan="4" style="background-color:#a9c6dd">EDK II User Documentation</th></tr>
<tr>
<th>Document Download</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/User_Docs/UEFI-PackagingToolQuickStartGuideRev_1_2.pdf PDF]

    </td>

    <td>
UEFI Packaging Tool (UEFIPT) Quick Start 1.2 <br>

This document provides a definitive list of steps to follow which will result in the creation of a UEFI Distribution Package using the UEFI Packaging Tool (UEFIPT) within a Microsoft Windows* OS and Linux OS environments.
* August 2015
    </td>
</tr>



<tr>
    <td>
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/User_Docs/SigningUefiImages%20-v1dot31.pdf PDF ] or
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/User_Docs/SigningUefiImages%20-v1dot31.zip Zip]

    </td>

    <td>
Signing UEFI Images.pdf V1.31 <br>
Version 1.31. This document describes how to sign UEFI images for the development and test of UEFI Secure Boot using the UDK2010.SR1 release.

*	Provides an overview of UEFI Secure Boot 
*	Details the steps to sign an UEFI image 
*	Describes the UEFI Secure Boot policies 
*	Describes the steps required to set specific UEFI Secure Boot policies 
*	Describes the image authorization flow when UEFI Secure Boot is enabled
*	Decribes how to use OVMF and NT32Pkg as UEFI Secure Boot reference platforms
*	Demonstrates several UEFI Secure Boot scenarios using OVMF
Updates and clarifications related to UEFI Spec conformance regarding KEK and DB usages


See also [[SecurityPkg]] for more information on How to enable security, TPM, User identification (UID), secure boot and authenticated variable.

NOTE SVNs: For Nt32Pkg requires -r13186, For OVMF Requires -r13160 beyond UDK2010.SR1 release version

* Feb 2013
    </td>
</tr>

<tr>
    <td>
[https://legacy.gitbook.com/book/edk2-docs/edk-ii-uefi-driver-writer-s-guide/details gitbook]
    </td>

    <td>
The [[UEFI Driver Writer's Guide]] is designed to aid in the development of UEFI Drivers using the EDK II open source project as a development environment. Please refer to the [[Driver Developer]] page for more information.
    </td>
</tr>

<tr>
    <td>
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/User_Docs/EDK_II_UserManual_0_7.pdf PDF]
    </td>

    <td>
EDKII User Manual V 0.7 <br>
This document provides detailed instructions for downloading, configuring, and building an EDK II project as well as running EDKII Emulation Environments.

* March 2010
    </td>
</tr>

<tr>
    <td>
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/User_Docs/EDK_II%20Module%20Writer_s%20Guide_0_7.pdf PDF]
    </td>

    <td>
EDK II Module Writer's Guide v 0.7<br>
The document is a guideline for new EDK II module developers, and provides detailed instructions on how to develop and build a new module, and
how to release with a package.

* March 2010
    </td>
</tr>


<tr>
    <td>
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/User_Docs/PerformanceOptimization_1_0.pdf  PDF]

    </td>

    <td>
Performance Optimization <br>
Technical documentation for Performance Optimization for EDK II

* Feb 2010
    </td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>
[https://github.com/tianocore-docs/Docs/raw/master/User_Docs/UEFI%20SCT%20Case%20Writers%20Guide_0_91.pdf PDF ]
    </td>

    <td>
UEFI SCT Case Writers Guide .91 <br>
This document defines the guidelines for writing the test cases under UEFI Self-Certification Test (SCT) and introduces the UEFI SCT source tree. This document is intended for anyone interested in developing or porting tests for the UEFI SCT
* July 2009
    </td>
</tr>

<!--
<tr>
    <td>
Previous UDK Releases
    </td>

    <td>
[[EdkII_dashboard| EDK II Dashboard Page]]
    </td>
</tr>
<tr></tr>
-->

</table>