= EDK II Build Tools sub project=
This sub project is for development of the EDK II Build Tools. This is the primary set of tools for processing [http://www.tianocore.org/edk2/ EDK II] content. It contains configuration templates and source files. The tools support a Makefile based EDK II build with no additional packages required--the compiler tool chain, an assembler and optional ACPI assembler are the only additional tools need to build the EDK II project.

Source code in this project is divided into two types:
* Tools written in C ([http://www.open-std.org/jtc1/sc22/wg14/ ANSI C]) are primarily for tools that modify binary data structures
* Tools based on Python ([http://www.python.org Python]) are primarily for tools that parse or process text files

Tools must adhere to the following requirements:
* Tools must be able to execute on a wide variety of operating systems.
* Tools written in Python use [[Python Tools]] and get converted to Win32 executable binary files before they are added to the BaseTools directory in the EDK II project. 

To assist developers working with the Python tools, Python has been provided, along with the Python tools for creating graphical user interfaces (wxPython) and tools for creating native executable files (cxFreeze and py2app) for Microsoft*, Linux*, and Mac OS/X*. Python and the supporting Python package are available via SVN (See Resources below).

Tested and Released binaries for Microsoft Windows* 32-bit operating system are checked into the EDK II project along with the configuration files. The BaseTools use an INI format for build Meta Data files. You do not need to down load this project to build EDK II with the BaseTools. Refer to the BuildNotes2.txt file for details on using the BaseTools for the build. 

Download and setup guide: [[BuildTool Setup Guide]]

* Prebuilt Windows tools are available at https://github.com/tianocore/edk2-BaseTools-win32. 
* BaseTools Git repository is available at: https://github.com/tianocore/buildtools-BaseTools 



Git source mirrors: [[EDK2 git|more EDK II git info]]

Project Info: [https://github.com/tianocore/buildtools-BaseTools/blob/master/ReadMe.txt Project Info ReadMe]

Documentation [https://github.com/tianocore/buildtools-BaseTools/tree/master/UserManuals User Manuals]


View the [[EDK II Tools List]] for a description of each tool.

== Releases == 

UDK2015 :
* [https://github.com/tianocore/udk/releases/download/UDK2015/BaseTools.Windows.zip BaseTools.Windows.zip]
* [https://github.com/tianocore/udk/releases/download/UDK2015/BaseTools.Unix.tar  BaseTools.Unix.tar]

Please see [[UDK2015]] wiki page for more information on the latest release of Build Tools<BR>

<hr>

Below Table are Releases for Archive purposes only


<div class="t_projects">

<table>
<tr><th colspan="4" style="background-color:#a9c6dd">BuildTools Releases</th></tr>
<tr>
<th>Release</th>
<th>Description</th>
<th>Tools included in the release</th>
<th>Documents</th>
</tr>


<tr>
<td rowspan="4">
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2-buildtools/files/BuildTools_Source_Packages/BaseTools(Unix)_UDK2010.SR1.UP1.tar/download  TAR ]

[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2-buildtools/files/BuildTools_Source_Packages/BaseTools(Windows)_UDK2010.SR1.UP1.zip/download .ZIP] 
June 26, 2012
</td>
<td rowspan="4">Primary set of tools for processing EDK II content.</td>
<td rowspan="4">
*BootSectImage 
*Build Utility
*EfiLdrImage
*EfiRom
*Fpd2Dsc
*GenBootSector
*GenCrc32
*GenDepex
*GenFds
*GenFfs
*GenFv
*GenFw
*GenPage
*GenPatchPcdTable
*GenSec
*GenVtf
*UEFI Packaging Tool
*LzmaCompress
*Msa2Inf
*PatchPcdValue
*Spd2Dec
*SplitFile
*TargetTool
*TianoCompress
*Trim
*VfrCompiler
*VolInfo

</td>

<td>
<span class="docHeader">Readme</span>

[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2-buildtools/files/BuildTools_Source_Packages/ReadMe.txt/download ReadMe.txt (baseTools)]

[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2-buildtools/files/BuildTools_Source_Packages/ReadMe(Gcc).txt/download ReadMe.txt (Base Tools –gcc)]

[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2-buildtools/files/BuildTools_Source_Packages/ReadMe(Coonf).txt/download ReadMe.txt (Base-Tools-config)]
</td></tr>
<tr><td>
<span class="docHeader">General documentation</span>
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2-buildtools/files/BuildTools_Source_Packages/UDK2010.SR1.UP1.UserManuals.zip/download UDK2010.SR1.UP1 User Manuals Zip]

</td></tr>
<tr><td>
<span class="docHeader">Specifications</span>

</td></tr>
<tr><td>
<span class="docHeader">Technical information</span>

</td></tr>

<tr>
<td rowspan="4">
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2-buildtools/files/BuildTools_Source_Packages/BaseTools(Unix)_UDK2010.SR1.tar/download  .TAR ]

[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2-buildtools/files/BuildTools_Source_Packages/BaseTools(Windows)_UDK2010.SR1.zip/download .ZIP] 


Jan 2, 2012
</td>
<td rowspan="4">Primary set of tools for processing EDK II content.</td>
<td rowspan="4">
</td>

<td>
<span class="docHeader">Readme</span>

[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2-buildtools/files/BuildTools_Source_Packages/ReadMe.txt/download ReadMe.txt (baseTools)]

[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2-buildtools/files/BuildTools_Source_Packages/ReadMe(Gcc).txt/download ReadMe.txt (Base Tools –gcc)]

[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2-buildtools/files/BuildTools_Source_Packages/ReadMe(Coonf).txt/download ReadMe.txt (Base-Tools-config)]
</td></tr>
<tr><td>
<span class="docHeader">General documentation</span>
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2-buildtools/files/BuildTools_Source_Packages/UserManuals.zip/download User Manuals Zip]

</td></tr>
<tr><td>
<span class="docHeader">Specifications</span>

</td></tr>
<tr><td>
<span class="docHeader">Technical information</span>

</td></tr>

</table>

</div>

== Notes ==
These tools are under constant development to ensure [[UEFI]]/PI specification conformance and to reduce build times. 

Your Feedback is critical to making EDK II a success. Please submit any enhancements, defects, or requests through the  the <a href="mailto:edk2-devel-bounces@lists.01.org?Subject=BuildTools&body=BuildTools> edk2-devel </a> mailing list

Goto  [[edk2-devel]]  to Join the Mailing list

License information: [http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php BSD]

Project owner(s):  {{sfuser|jcarsey}}, {{sfuser|lhauch}}  See: [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/tianocore/edk2/master/Maintainers.txt Maintainers.txt]
