<!-- [[Category:EDKII]] -->
{{project-summary
|sum=[[EDK II]] [[UEFI]] FAT filesystem driver
|cat=uefi-boot-services-driver
|lic=[http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php BSD] with additional term (see below)
|own={{sfuser|jljusten}}, {{sfuser|pgao2}}
|docs=http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2-fatdriver2/files/ 
|src=https://svn.code.sf.net/p/edk2-fatdriver2/code ([[2013 Subversion Change|note recent change]])
|dev=http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2-fatdriver2/develop}}

Welcome to the EDK II FAT-Driver PROJECT, a project for the EDK II FAT32 File System Driver, which is based on Microsoft's FAT32 File System Driver Specification. The EDK II Fat Driver is separate from the EDK II project only because the terms of use of the code are unique, requiring us to keep it in a separate code repository (the terms are basically that code developed using the FAT32 Specification must be associated with EFI). The EDK II Fat Driver is structured as a Package that fits into the EDK II's overall build and packaging system.

This project is a subproject of the EDK II project, and is only used to house the FAT32 code repository. All development tools in the EDK project are integrated with this project, so come here only to update the Subversion repository or to get access to the latest code snapshots. Use the EDK project to post issues, join mailing lists, participate in discussion forums, etc. In short, consider them one project with two code repositories.
Working with the FAT32 Code

'''The FAT-Driver project is sponsored by Intel and released under the BSD License with one additional term. Before using the code please read the license below, paying special attention to the "Additional Terms" section:'''

{{info
|Copyright (c) 2004, Intel Corporation All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
* Redistributions of source code must  retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
* Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
* Neither the name of Intel nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

'''Additional terms''': In addition to the forgoing, redistribution and use of the code is conditioned upon the FAT 32 File System Driver and all derivative works thereof being used for and designed only to read and/or write to a file system that is directly managed by:
Intel’s Extensible Firmware Initiative (EFI) Specification v. 1.0 and later and/or  the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) Forum’s UEFI Specifications v.2.0 and later (together the “UEFI Specifications”); only as necessary to emulate an implementation of the UEFI Specifications; and to create firmware, applications, utilities and/or drivers.
 }}

'''Enhanced-FAT-Driver'''

The Enhanced-FAT-Driver is a new implementation of the FAT32 filesystem. It is a near complete rewrite of the original FAT-Driver with over 80% of the code being specific just to the Enhanced-FAT-Driver. The new driver is faster and takes up only 66% of the original FAT-Driver's memory footprint.
What makes the Enhanced-FAT-Driver better?

* Better Architecture
** More modular design thanks to object oriented and hierarchical design 
* Logic directory approach used in place of the physical directory
* Easier to maintain and debug
* 80% of the code was completely rewritten to make it smaller and faster
* Higher Performance
** A cache mechanism to cache recently opened directories 
* A more efficient 8.3 name generation algorithm
* 10x, 100x or even 1000x acceleration when creating thousands files/directories
* Smaller Size
** Simplified the controller name from "FAT File System[FAT16] 200MB" to "FAT File System" 
* Succinct coding style
* 2/3 the image size of the original FAT-Driver 

'''Other Common Links and Downloads'''

* Request for a FAT-Driver Project Role (initial or promotion)
* Link to the [http://tianocore.github.io/edk2.html EDK II] Project Homepage
* Link to the TianoCore Community Project
* Link to the [[Reporting Issues|TianoCore Issue Management Process]]
* Link to [http://www.microsoft.com/whdc/system/platform/firmware/fatgen.mspx Microsoft's FAT32 System Driver Specification]