Note: If you are simply looking for an
[[Source Control|EDK II git repository]],
then visit the [[Source Control]] page.

The [http://tianocore.github.io/edk2.html EDK II] project uses the subversion source control system.
But, as [http://git-scm.org git] is a source control system often
used by open-source projects these days, the question of whether git
can be used with EDK II occasionally comes up.
This page will attempt to document how contributors can use git with
EDK II, as well as other EDK II git information.

== Contributors without svn commit access ==

EDK II uses [[EDKII Packages|package maintainers]] to own
reviewing and committing contributions for a package. This
means that most contributors don't really need to interface
with svn if they prefer to use git.

In this scenario, the contributor can clone from one of the
EDK II [[Source Control|git mirrors]]. They can then:
# Make their changes in git as usual
# Use git format-patch / send-email as normal to publish the changes to [[edk2-devel]]

Of course, when the package maintainer commits your change,
your authorship of the commit will be lost, as svn does not
maintain separate author/committer metadata.

== Helping convince EDK II to convert to git ==

If you would prefer for EDK II to use git, then one of the
most helpful things you can do is mention it on [[edk2-devel]].
Silence will generally favor and the Status quo / staying on svn.

Other than this, your best bet is to use the
[[Source Control|git mirrors]] of svn to make it clear that
this is how you prefer to work.

Use of git send-email, pushing your tree to a publicly accessible
location and mentioning that your changes are available in a
branch, will help raise awareness of the usefulness of git as well.

== Discussions of converting to git ==

Git is mentioned occasionally on [[edk2-devel]].

In February 2013 there was such a
[https://sourceforge.net/mailarchive/message.php?msg_id=30431526 discussion],
and in general people expressed a desire to use git for EDK II.
Here is some of the information from that email thread:
* David & Jordan from Intel would prefer git
* Andrew from Apple uses git-svn, and wouldn't mind if the project move to git
* Cameron from Apple does '''not''' want to use git
* ARM uses git
* Linaro uses git
** Maintains their own git-svn [http://git.linaro.org/gitweb?p=mirror/edk2/edk2.git;a=summary repository]
* Brian from SGI mentioned they would prefer git
* Laszlo from Red Hat uses git
* Several EDK II Google Summer of Code projects used git

== See Also ==
* [[EDK II git-svn]] (For [[EDKII Packages|package owners]] / svn committers)

<!-- [[Category:EDKII]] -->
<!-- [[Category:git]] -->