EDK II Application Development Kit for include the Standard C Libraries in UEFI Shell Applications 


<div class="t_projects">

<table>
<tr><th colspan="4" style="background-color:#a9c6dd">EDK II Application Development Kit (EADK)
</th>

</tr>
<tr>
<th>Download</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
 </tr>

<tr>
<td>
'''EADK'''-
<P style="margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0">
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/EDK%20II%20Releases/EADK/EADK_1.02/EadkPkg_B1.02_Release.zip/download release 1.02.zip]
</p>

----

<P style="margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0">
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/EDK%20II%20Releases/EADK/EADK_1.02/EADK_1.02_Release_notes.txt/download Release Notes]
</p>

</td>
<td>
<P style="margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0">
EDK II Application Development Kit (EADK) Release 1.02 Package incorporates using the Standard C Library components. Include these into standard "C" applications.  See the AppPkg for "Hello World" example
* This release is based on SVN:  
*  https://svn.code.sf.net/p/edk2/code/trunk/edk2/  -r 14804
</p>
<P style="margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0">
</p>
Packages Included:  (Note: get the latest from the [[UDK2010]] release)
<P style="margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0">
'''1) [[AppPkg]]''';- This package contains applications which demonstrate use of the          Standard C Library.            These applications reside in AppPkg/Applications.

*''' Enquire ''' This is a program that determines many properties of the                C compiler and the target machine that Enquire is run on.  The                only changes required to port this 1990s era Unix program to                EDK II were the addition of eight pragmas to enquire.c in                order to disable some Microsoft VC++ specific warnings.
* '''Hello'''    This is a very simple EDK II native application that doesn't use               any features of the Standard C Library.

* '''Main'''     This application is functionally identical to Hello, except that                it uses the Standard C Library to provide a main() entry point. 
* '''Python'''   A port of the Python-2.7.2 interpreter for UEFI.  This                application is disabled by default.  Un-comment the line for                PythonCore.inf in the [Components] section of AppPkg.dsc to                enable building Python.

*''' Sockets ''' A collection of applications demonstrating use of the                EDK II Socket Libraries.  These applications include: 
:*   DataSink                     
:*   DataSource
:*   GetAddrInfo                  
:*   GetHostByAddr
:*   GetHostByDns                 
:*   GetHostByName
:*   GetNetByAddr                 
:*   GetNetByName
:*   GetServByName                
:*   GetServByPort
:*   OobRx                        
:*   OobTx
:*   RawIp4Rx                     
:*   RawIp4Tx
:*   RecvDgram                    
:*   SetHostName
:*   SetSockOpt                   
:*   TftpServer
:*   WebServer
</p>
<P style="margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0">
'''2) [[StdLib]]'''
 
;- The StdLib package contains the standard header files as well as            implementations of the standard libraries.

</p>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<th></th>
<th> Earlier Releases of EADK</th>
</tr>


<tr>
<td>
<P style="margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0">
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/EDK%20II%20Releases/EADK/UDK2010.SR1.UP1.P1/EADK_B1_Release.zip/download Beta 1.zip]
</p>
<P style="margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0">
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/EDK%20II%20Releases/EADK/UDK2010.SR1.UP1.P1/EADK_B1_Release_Notes.txt/download Release Notes]
</p>

</td>
<td>
* This release is based on SVN:  (Same as UDK2010.SR1.UP1.P1)
* https://svn.code.sf.net/p/edk2/code/branches/UDK2010.SR1/  -r 14385
</td>

</tr>


<tr>
<td>
<P style="margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0">
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/EDK%20II%20Releases/EADK/EADK_A2_Release.zip/download EADK Alpha 2 .zip]
</p>
<P style="margin-top: 0; margin-bottom: 0">
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/EDK%20II%20Releases/EADK/EADK_A2_Release_notes.txt/download Release Notes]

</p>

</td>
<td>

* Based on  SVN http://edk2.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/edk2/trunk/edk2  r11577
</td>

</tr>

</table>
[[Category:EDKII]]
[[Category:EADK]]
</div>