[[Category:ArchivedInformation]]

'''The [[EDKII_EADK]] is replacing the EFI Toolkit.  It is recommended that you use this EDK II Project instead of the EFI Toolkit since it is no longer supported.'''
----


== Unmaintained project for reference only ==


The EFI Toolkit is a set of tools that support rapid porting and development of EFI applications, and promote a uniform pre-boot environment on 32 and 64 bit based platforms. The components are released as reference source code. Some components are meant to be stand alone and run on UEFI/EFI compliant systems and some components will require running on the EFI shell. The EFI Toolkit is released under the [[BSD License from Intel|BSD License]], and the Python code is released under [http://www.python.org/download/releases/2.4.4/license/ PSF License]. 


Working with the EFI Toolkit 

The EFI Toolkit package enables rapid development of EFI based applications, protocols, device drivers, EFI shells, and OS loaders on IA-32, IA-64(IPF) and Intel 64(EM64T or X64) platforms. It provides libraries and samples for using native EFI services, as well as portability libraries that make it easy to port or write Unix/POSIX style programs. 


Source repository: https://svn.code.sf.net/p/efi-toolkit/code/trunk/efi-toolkit/

<div class="t_projects">

<table>
<tr><th colspan="4" style="background-color:#a9c6dd">EFI Toolkit Releases</th></tr>
<tr>
<th>Release</th>
<th>What is it?</th>
<th>What’s in the package</th>
<th>Documents</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td rowspan="4">[http://sourceforge.net/projects/efi-toolkit/files/Official%20Releases/EFI_Toolkit_2.0.0.1.zip/download EFI_Toolkit-2.0.0.1.zip]
</td>
<td rowspan="4">Contains sample EFI applications and utilities source code to aid in EFI development.

Note: this project is no longer maintained.
</td>
<td rowspan="4">
IA-32, IA-64 and Intel 64 Build Environments

All source and make files needed to build the IA-32, IA-64 and Intel 64(EM64T) versions of the Toolkit

'''Common Utilities'''

Hexdump(display raw file contents or medis), Ed (line editor), makramdisk (Create ramdisk)

'''Standard C Library'''

The standard functions in the C library (libc, libm, libsociket as well as libefi.

'''Compress/Decompress Library'''

Support for doing file compression/decompression is supplied through libz

'''Database Access Library'''

The FreeBSD database access method library, libdb

'''TTY Library'''

A serial port management library libtty.

'''Network Stack'''

A complete TCP/IPv4 implementation as an EFI protocol, and the socket library.

'''Network Utilities'''

FTP client, CHCP client, ifconfig, route, hostname, and ping. 

'''PPP network support'''

A complete PPP implementation is included with the network stack as well as a client and serial port management protocol.

'''Scripting Interpreter'''

The Python interpreter.

'''Full Screen Text Editor'''

Simple full screen text editor that can create and edit both Unicode and ASKII text files

'''Wide character (Unicode) and local support'''

The C library supports the ANSI wide-character functions and FreeBSD* local support. 

'''Multi-processor Test support'''

Provides support for loading, starting, and terminating non-EFI based programs on application processors of a multi-processor Itanium-based system. 

'''RAM Disk'''

A protocol which provides a virtual (RAM) disk.
</td>

<td>
<span class="docHeader">Readme</span>

[https://efi-toolkit.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/efi-toolkit/trunk/efi-toolkit/doc/RELNOTE.pdf EFI Application Toolkit Release Notes]
</td></tr>
<tr><td>
<span class="docHeader">General documentation</span>

</td></tr>
<tr><td>
<span class="docHeader">Specifications</span>

</td></tr>
<tr><td>
<span class="docHeader">Technical information</span>

</td></tr>
</table>

</div>


License information: [http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php BSD]

Project owner(s): hlhsiung, mwu7

Developer page: http://sourceforge.net/projects/efi-toolkit/develop


'''Handy Links'''

The following links are provided for use by the general public: 

*[https://sourceforge.net/projects/efi-toolkit/files/ Directory of EFI Toolkit Source Code Snapshots ]

*[http://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/tianocore/index.php?title=Welcome#Projects Link to the TianoCore Community Projects]

*[http://www.uefi.org Link to the UEFI Specification (on UEFI.org Site) ]

*[https://sourceforge.net/apps/mediawiki/tianocore/index.php?title=Mailing_Lists Archives of the EDK "Dev" Mailing List]

*[http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?group_id=289014&atid=1223910 Query or submit EFI toolkit Project Defects ]


Project Point of Contact
Project owner: 

*[mailto:harry.l.hsiung@intel.com Hsiung, Harry L], Intel Corporation, 
*[mailto:ming.m.wu@intel.com Wu, Ming], Intel Corporation