Tianocore is participating in the [http://socghop.appspot.com Google Summer of Code 2011]. This page provide information for our students and mentors.

==Contacts==

For most questions, please email the [[edk2-devel]] email list.  If this doesn't work, contact {{sfuser|jljusten}} directly.

==News==
* Here is the [http://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/events/google/gsoc2011 official GSoC 2011 timeline]

===Thanks to coreboot===

Thanks to the [http://www.coreboot.org/ coreboot] project for donating 2 GSoC project slots to tianocore, which will enable us to pursue 2 additional projects as part of GSoC!

==Students==

===Getting Started===
Google has posted some useful
[http://google-opensource.blogspot.com/2011/03/dos-and-donts-of-google-summer-of-code.html DOs and DON'Ts for students].

Aside from Google's recommendations, here are some things you should look over before starting the main work on your project:
# Review our [[Code Style]]
#* Including the parts about commit messages and commit partitioning.
# (Optional) Complete the process to become a [[Member Types#Basic Contributor|Basic Contributor]] if you'd like to be able to contribute code into our edk2 tree.
# Determine where you are going to initially host your code
#* Your mentor will want to see progress on your project every few days, and this will be much easier in a separate project
#* Determine which source control system you will use.  Subversion would be a good first choice.  Git could be an options as well.  (You'll want to include your mentor in this choice.)
#* Some code hosting options: [http://code.google.com/hosting google], [http://sourceforge.net sourceforge], [https://github.com/ github]

===Working on the Project===
Here are some recommendations for use during the summer while working on your project:
# [http://www.google.com/search?q=commit+early+commit+often Commit early, commit often]
#* Besides being a good practice in general, this will allow your mentor to see your progress.
#* Proper [[Commit Partitioning]] can allow you to check in changes up to several per day.
# Ask questions earlier rather than later.
#* Use the [[edk2-devel]] list first, and your mentor second.  You should interact with our community as much as possible.
#* Questions are good.  Perhaps it'll point out some documentation that we need for our community.
# Create a timeline with some intermediate goals for your project.
#* Discuss the situation with your mentor if you need to adjust your goals.
# Don't copy source code, except from the main [http://www.tianocore.org/edk2/ EDK II] tree.
#* If you think some BSD licensed code from another project is required, make sure you discuss it with your mentor and  {{sfuser|jljusten}}.
# If you have an issue, and your mentor is not able to help you, then contact {{sfuser|jljusten}}.

==Mentors==
# Be sure to look over Google's [http://google-opensource.blogspot.com/2011/04/dos-and-donts-of-google-summer-of-code_21.html DOs and DON'Ts for mentors].
# Review the student section above
# Monitor your students work in their source repository
#* If you are not seeing regular updates, make sure your student is not getting into trouble
#* You should be in communication with your student, or seeing good results in their source repository at least every few days (at a minimum).
# If you have an issue, please contact {{sfuser|jljusten}}.

<!--

==Students==
These are some project proposals from our community:
* Please join our [[edk2-devel]] email list and start asking about the project you are interested in
** Let us know if you need more information!
* Feel free to suggest you own project idea.  (It might be a good idea to discuss your idea first on [[edk2-devel]].)
* GSoC page: http://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/org/google/gsoc2011/tianocore

Note: We primarily use the [[BSD License from Intel|BSD license]], and it is generally expected that your project will be completed utilizing this license.

==Application Template==

Students, please prepare a project proposal with the following information:
* Contact information (email)
* Personal description, qualifications
** skills
** past projects/experiences
** any previous open source contributions
* Explain your interest in UEFI or firmware
* Your plans for the project 
** high level plan
** 1st draft timeline
* Will you be able to become a [[Member Types#Basic Contributor|Basic Contributor]] by agreeing to our [[Contribution Agreement]]?  (Just answer yes or no.  If yes, then we would complete this process separately.)


This application/project proposal will need to be uploaded to the main GSoC website between [http://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/events/google/gsoc2011 March 28th and April 8th].  The accepted applications will be announced on [http://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/events/google/gsoc2011 April 25th].


To submit your application visit the Google Summer of Code site, and submit your application with the tianocore project.
* http://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/org/google/gsoc2011/tianocore

==Potential Mentors==
* {{sfuser|jljusten}}
* {{sfuser|andrewfish}}
* {{sfuser|andreiwarkentin}}

To become a mentor for our project:
* Visit http://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/request/google/gsoc2011/tianocore

-->
==See Also==
* http://www.google-melange.com/gsoc/org/google/gsoc2011/tianocore
* [[Tasks]]

<!-- [[Category:GSoC]] -->