==[[EDK2|EDK II]]==
A modern, feature-rich, cross-platform firmware development environment for the UEFI and PI specifications. Click for a list of EDK II[[Documents | Documents]] and Specifications
* [[UDK2010]] is a stable release of portions of our [[EDK2|EDK II]] project.
* [[edk2-buildtools]] is the primary set of tools for processing EDK II content.
* [[OVMF]] is a project to enable UEFI support for Virtual Machines.
* [[Shellpkg]] UEFI Shell is a project to create a UEFI 2.0 Shell implementation.
* [[EDKII_EADK]] EDK II Application Development Kit (EADK) to include Standard C Libraries in UEFI Shell Applications (EFI_Toolkit replacement)
* [[Driver_Developer|UEFI Driver Developer Resources with EDK II]] Support UEFI driver development by independent hardware vendors (IHV), including the UEFI Driver Wizard and UEFI Driver Writers Guide (DWG).
* [[Beagle Board Wiki|Beagle Board]] is a low cost highly capable single board computer.
* [[edk2-fat-driver]] is a driver for the FAT12/16/32 filesystems.
* [[gcc-shell|gcc-shell]] is a port of the older EFI shell to add GCC build support and ARM processor support.
* [[EDKII Packages]] - List of EDK II based packages
* [[GSOC2011]] is our Google Summer of Code 2011 project
* [[EDK2Share]] A sharing location
* Some open [[Tasks]] suggested by our EDK II community
* EDK II Security Package and other news on Security [[SecurityPkg]]
* [[MinnowBoard]] open community project with UEFI Developed firmware. 

==[[efidevkit|EDK]]==
Note: this is the older development environment; Pre-[[EDK2|EDK II]]. See the [[Differences_between_EDK_and_EDK_II|Differences between EDK and EDK II
]]
* [[EFI Shell|EDK Releases]] the open-source component of Intel's implementation of the EFI Specification
* [[edk-fat-driver|edk-fat-driver]] a project for the FAT32 File System Driver
* [[network-io|network-io]] SNP NT32 Network I/O
* [[edk-apps|edk-apps]] EDK applications
* [[efidevkit|EDK Network UNDI Driver]] [http://sourceforge.net/projects/efidevkit/files/Releases/Others/Other%20Contribution/gig_efi_src_4606.zip/download -Download] The latest Intel(R) PRO/1000 Network UEFI/ EDK Driver 
* [[efidevkit|EDK Client Patch 9]] [http://sourceforge.net/projects/efidevkit/files/Releases/Others/Other%20Contribution/EDK1117_Client_Framework_PatchV9.zip/download  -Download] Latest EDK Client Patch 9 -20130117 Ref 518096

==[[efishell| EFI Shell]] Project ==
Please Note: this is the older EFI shell; Pre-[[ShellPkg]]
* [[Efi-shell|EDK EFI Shell]] - Matched to [[EDK Releases]]

==Other Projects==
* [http://sourceforge.net/projects/pi-sct/files/ PI SCT] Platform Initializiation Self-certification test projtect (Separate SF Project pi-sct) 
* [[framework-sct|framework-sct]] EFI device driver loader, application launcher, OS booter
* [[edkcontrib|edkcontrib]]  Contributions to the EDK for expanded functionality
* [[Tianocore the site|Tiancocore the site]] this site.
* [[efi-sct|efi-sct]]  UEFI SCT has been moved to the UEFI Forum at http://www.uefi.org members page.

==Older, unmaintained projects==
* [[EFI Toolkit]] is a set of tools that support rapid porting and development of EFI applications, and promote a uniform pre-boot environment on 32 and 64 bit based platforms.

[[Category:Main]]