{{UEFIShell}}

= Shell Requirements =
The shell is explicitly defined as a UEFI 2.1+ Application.  That means that is has a requirement on a completed system table and many protocols.  
The shell will use features only found in UEFI 2.3+ (such as SimpleTextInputEx), but will function with a reduced feature set without these features.  Note that these reductions in functionality may make the the shell non-spec compliant.

== Table Requirements ==
The shell uses many functions found on the System Table or sub-tables.

=== System Table ===
*EFI Table Header
*ConsoleInHandle
*ConIn
*ConsoleOutHandle
*ConOut
*StandardErrorHandle
*StdErr

=== Boot Services ===
All major sections of this table are used.
*Event, Timer, and Task Priority Services
*Memory Allocation Services
*Protocol Handler Services
*Image Services
*Miscelaneous Boot Services

=== Runtime Services ===
Many sections of this table are used.
*Variable Services
*Time Services
*Miscelaneous Runtime Services

==Protocol Dependancy==
The shell uses many UEFI standard protocols to perform.
=== Required ===
*gEfiSimpleTextInProtocolGuid
*gEfiSimpleTextOutProtocolGuid
*gEfiSimpleFileSystemProtocolGuid
*gEfiLoadedImageProtocolGuid
*gEfiComponentName2ProtocolGuid
*gEfiUnicodeCollation2ProtocolGuid
*gEfiDevicePathProtocolGuid
*gEfiDevicePathToTextProtocolGuid
*gEfiPciRootBridgeIoProtocolGuid
*gEfiBlockIoProtocolGuid
=== Optional ===
These are used for shell nesting operations, but are not required by the first shell instance.
*gEfiShellProtocolGuid
*gEfiShellParametersProtocolGuid
=== Reduced Feature Optional ===
Lacking these protocols will reduce the feature set.
*gEfiSimpleTextInputExProtocolGuid

=== Command Dependant ===
The main shell and some commands will function without these.  Some commands may not function.
*gEfiSimplePointerProtocolGuid
*gEfiDriverHealthProtocolGuid
*gEfiDriverFamilyOverrideProtocolGuid
*gEfiHiiConfigAccessProtocolGuid
*gEfiHiiDatabaseProtocolGuid
*gEfiCpuArchProtocolGuid
*gEfiIp6ProtocolGuid
*gEfiIp6ServiceBindingProtocolGuid
*gEfiIp6ConfigProtocolGuid