=ShellPkg=

'''[https://github.com/tianocore/edk2/tree/master/ShellPkg ShellPkg]''' is an [[EDKII Packages|EDK II Package]] that provides a native implementation of the UEFI Shell 2.x specifications.

== Getting the Shell 2.0 ==

This provides a shell application, a set of NULL-named libraries that provide configurable command sets, and libraries for creating more Shell applications and shell commands. See the [https://edk2.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/edk2/trunk/edk2/ShellPkg/Readme.txt ReadMe] for more info.

__NOTOC__
===Source Repository===

'''ShellPkg''' provides source code for the UEFI Shell and related applications. '''ShellBinPkg''' provides a pre-built version of the UEFI Shell and applications. Refer to the [https://github.com/tianocore/edk2/blob/master/ShellBinPkg/ReadMe.txt ShellBinPkg ReadMe] for more info.

==UEFI Shell 2.x Engineering Resources==

*[[Shell Execution Requirements]]
*[[Shell Library Primer|Shell Library Primer]]
*[[Creating a Shell Application|Creating a Shell Application]]
*[[Porting an EDK Shell Extension|Porting an EDK Shell Extension]]
*[[Shell Application to internal command|Move a Shell Application to internal command]]
*[[Shell_FAQ |Shell FAQ]]

==ShellPkg versus EdkShellPkg==

The '''[[EdkShellPkg]]''' implements an older version of the EFI Shell, prior to standardization by the UEFI Forum. Please treat ''EdkShellPkg''' and '''EdkShellBinPkg''' as end-of-life code.

[https://github.com/tianocore/edk2/tree/master/EdkShellPkg]
[https://github.com/tianocore/edk2/tree/master/EdkShellBinPkg]
