Add [http://nbd.sourceforge.net/ Network Block Device] support

* Difficulty: Medium
* Language: C
* Mentor:
* Suggested by: {{sfuser|bjjohnson}}, {{sfuser|andreiwarkentin}}

= Details =

= Test environment =

Client
* [http://tianocore.github.io/ovmf/ OVMF], [[EmulatorPkg]], or [[NT32]].

Server
* Linux
* Windows (for example, try http://www.vanheusden.com/windows/nbdsrvr/)

= Links for more information =

* http://nbd.sourceforge.net/
* http://wiki.wireshark.org/NBD
* http://www.vanheusden.com/java/JNbd/
* http://www.vanheusden.com/windows/nbdsrvr/
* https://github.com/yoe/nbd
* http://code.activestate.com/recipes/577569-nbd-server-in-python/

= Development environment =
Building: This project can be completed on any edk2 supported OS or toolchain.

= Sub-goals =
Sub-goals:
* Using wireshark and publically available documentation, document the client/server protocol.
** Basic protocol.
** [EXTRA] Named exports.
** [EXTRA] Authentication.
* Setup UEFI environment with working TCP/IP (can 'ping' from Shell)
* Investigate EDK2 TcpIoLib and ecosystem.
** Some questions to answer: how to get local IP? Study UEFI spec and EDK2 code under NetworkPkg.
** Write an UEFI application that opens a TCP socket, writes and reads from it. Connect to a 'netcat' server. Netcat is a simple tool (like cat) that can be a TCP server or client (on Linux, alternatives exist for Windows).
** Extend UEFI application to implement the *basic* NBD protocol - no named exports, no authentication. Be able to connect to a server and read back one block of data.
* Understand UEFI driver model, and block protocols: EFI_BLOCK_IO_PROTOCOL and EFI_BLOCK_IO2_PROTOCOL.
** Better understand protocols, interfaces.
** Understanding driver binding, enumeration.
** Implement a dummy EFI_BLOCK_IO_PROTOCOL driver that creates a sample block device that returns all zeroes for all reads.
* NBD block I/O device.
** Wire-in NBD support from your network application above into your block I/O driver - implement read-only support.
** [EXTRA] Add read/write support.
** Think about management interface - how do you specify target server/port? (assumed you hardcoded it for now).
** [EXTRA] Write simple tool to manage NBD driver.

= Further Discussion =
This project would be for an edk2 based driver, so please discuss the project on [[edk2-devel]].

= See Also =
* [[Tasks#Network Block Device (NBD) client]]

[[Category:Tasks]]