{{UDK2014}}

<span style="font-size: 15.0pt; text-align: center; font-family: Verdana; color: #004280; font-weight: bold; font-style: normal">
'''UEFI and EDK II Learning and Development'''
</span>

Welcome to UEFI and EDK II Learning and Development.  The courses below are provided to help you increase your knowledge of UEFI and EDK II and to aid you in performing UEFI- and EDK II-related tasks.
These courses are provided and produced as a courtesy of Intel Corporation. 

To view the online courses, you'll need   [http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Training/Flash_Instructions.pdf/download Adobe* Flash Player 10] or higher with Microsoft Internet Explorer. (Also works with 
[http://www.adobe.com/products/flashplayer.html Adobe Flash Player] 13)  Before you begin a course, review the course objectives and intended audience to determine if the course is right for you.  Then, click the course link to begin.  Enjoy learning more about UEFI and EDK II!


If you have trouble  downloading from Sourceforge:
<br>
What you can do is download each lesson’s '''Zip file**'''  into your local directory.  Then unzip each one and run each of  the .htm files locally. The Flash Player is still required.

'''Courses'''

<div class="t_projects">

<table width="100%">
<tr>
    <th colspan="4" style="background-color:#a9c6dd">Defining Specifications' Role in Firmware</th>
</tr>
    <tr>
        <th>Download</th>
        <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
<tr></tr>

<tr>

  <td>
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Training/SpecIntro/Defining_Specifications_Role_in_Firmware.htm/download  Lesson 0] <br>
[http://sourceforge.net/projects/edk2/files/Training/SpecIntro/Defining_Specifications_Role_in_Firmware.zip/download Zip file**] 

  </td>

  <td>
'''Lesson 0: Defining Specifications' Role in Firmware'''<br>
Intended Audience: Firmware/Software Engineers 
Course Goal: Briefly explore the history and role of specifications in firmware 
  </td>


</tr>
</table>

<table width="100%">
<tr>
    <th colspan="4" style="background-color:#a9c6dd">
'''Initializing the Boot Process''' Lessons 1 - 5 </th>
</tr>
    <tr>
        <th>Download</th>
        <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
<tr></tr>


<!-- COMMENT  -->
<tr>

  <td>
  <br>
 
  </td>

  <td>
  <br>
  
  </td>


</tr>
<!-- COMMENT  -->
<tr>

  <td>
  <br>
 
  </td>

  <td>
  <br>
  
  </td>


</tr>
<!-- COMMENT  -->
<!-- COMMENT  -->
<tr>

  <td>
  <br>
 
  </td>

  <td>
  <br>
  
  </td>


</tr>
<!-- COMMENT  -->
<!-- COMMENT  -->
<tr>

  <td>
  <br>
 
  </td>

  <td>
  <br>
  
  </td>


</tr>
<!-- COMMENT  -->
<!-- COMMENT  -->
<tr>

  <td>
  <br>
 
  </td>

  <td>
  <br>
  
  </td>


</tr>
<!-- COMMENT  -->
<!-- COMMENT  -->
<tr>

  <td>
  <br>
 
  </td>

  <td>
  <br>
  
  </td>


</tr>
<!-- COMMENT  -->
<!-- COMMENT  -->

</table>
