This page documents the steps required to participate in tianocore development
on SourceForge.

=Read-Only Access to Source=
If you only require read-only access to tianocore source code, then you do
not need to do anything.  You can access all tianocore source code using
the guest login.

To find the path to source code, visit the '''Develop''' page for the project
you are interested in.  (See the provided links below)

=Previous tianocore.org Users=
If you had an account with tianocore.org previously, you may want to
attempt to register the same account name with SourceForge for consistency.
Of course, it may not be possible to create an account
with the same login name in all cases.

If you have a sourceforge account currently then you may choose to use this
account.

=Creating a SourceForge Account=
If you want to be more involved with tianocore work, then you will most likely
need to create a SourceForge account.

To create a SourceForge account, visit:
* http://sourceforge.net/account/registration/

=Requesting Additional Access=
After you have created a SourceForge account and logged into it, you can now
visit our project pages on SourceForge.  (Links provided below)

After visiting the SourceForge project page, click on the '''Develop''' link near the top of the page.  On the '''Develop''' page you can request additional access by clicking the '''Send a request to join this project''' link near the upper-right corner of the page.

From the '''Develop''' page, you can also join discussion groups and email lists related to the project.

<!-- [[Category:Main]] -->