__NOTOC__
This page provides step-by-step instructions or setting up a [http://www.tianocore.org/edk2/ EDK II] build environment on Windows systems.

<u>''Table of Contents''</u>
* [[Windows-systems#github-help|GitHub Help]]
* [[Windows-systems#how-to-setup-the-edk-ii-tree| How to Setup the EDK II Tree]]
* [[Windows-systems#download| Download]]  Checkout EDK II source tree from Github 
* [[Windows-systems#compile-tools |Compile Tools]] Build EDK II BaseTools for Windows 
* [[Windows-systems#build | BUILD]] EDK II

==GitHub Help==

GitHub (https://help.github.com/index.html) provides step-by-step instructions for user registration and basic features supported by GitHub.

=== Git GUI Interface for Windows OS ===
* Git for Windows OS is available at: (http://git-scm.com/download/win)
* TortoiseGit for windows OS is available at (https://tortoisegit.org/download/)

=='''GitHub EDK II Project Repositories'''==

* The EDK II project repository is available at https://github.com/tianocore/edk2. 
* Optional - Prebuilt Windows tools are available at https://github.com/tianocore/edk2-BaseTools-win32. 

Content that is not released under an accepted open source license can be found at https://github.com/tianocore/edk2-non-osi.<br />
&nbsp;<br />
Note: the steps below will pull the latest code from edk2 master. To work from a stable release, please refer to the Microsoft Windows build steps for [[UDK2017]]: https://github.com/tianocore/tianocore.github.io/wiki/UDK2017-How-to-Build#how-to-build-windows-system 

===Internet proxies===

If your network utilizes a firewall with a web proxy, then you may need to configure your proxy information for various command line applications to work.  You may need to consult with your network administrator to find out the computer name and port to use for proxy setup.  The following commands are common '''Git Bash''' examples of how you would configure your proxy by setting an environment variable:

<pre>
    $ git config --global https.proxy <proxyname>.domain.com:<port>
    $ git config --global http.proxy <proxyname>.domain.com:<port>
</pre>


=='''How to Setup the EDK II Tree'''==
'''Note:''' Some of the following examples use the Multiple Workspace feature to configure the EDK II BaseTools.  More information on the Multiple Workspace feature can be found at the following location. <BR>
* [[Multiple_Workspace]]

=='''Download'''==
Download/Checkout the EDK II source tree from Github
=== Download Using a Web browser ===

# Download EDK II Project
## Open https://github.com/tianocore/edk2 in web browser
## Click on the ''Clone or Download'' button (Right Green)
## Click on Download ZIP
## Unzip to C:/
## Rename directory “edk2-master” to “edk2”  
# Optional- (see [[Windows-systems#compile-tools |Compile Tools]] ) Download the EDK II pre-built Base Tools
## Open https://github.com/tianocore/edk2-BaseTools-win32  in web browser
## Click on the ''Clone or Download'' button (Right Green)
## Click on Download ZIP
## Unzip to C:/
## Rename directory “edk2-BaseTools-win32-master” to “Win32”  
## Copy C:/Win32 to C:/edk2/BaseTools/Bin
## Continue to  [[Windows-systems#build | BUILD]] section

Continue to [[Windows-systems#compile-tools |Compile Tools]] 

=== Using '''Git for Windows''' Application ===
==== ''Git GUI''====
# Clone the EDK II project repository
## Open Git GUI
## Use ''Clone Exiting Repository'' with Source location https://github.com/tianocore/edk2.git
## Select a Target directory C:/edk2
## Check Recursively clone submodules too
## click Clone button
# Optional (see [[Windows-systems#compile-tools |Compile Tools]] ) Repeat the above with the Clone the edk2-BaseTools-win32 repository repository to download Pre-built BaseTools
## Open Git Gui
## Use ''Clone Exiting Repository'' with Source location https://github.com/tianocore/edk2-BaseTools-win32.git and  Target directory C:/Win32
## Copy C:/Win32 to C:/edk2/BaseTools/Bin
##  Continue to  [[Windows-systems#build | BUILD]] Section

Continue to [[Windows-systems#compile-tools |Compile Tools]] section

==== ''Git CMD'' ====
If you use the command line version, then you can easily checkout the edk2 to the C:\edk2 directory with the following git command:
Main repository: https://github.com/tianocore/edk2
<pre>
    $git clone https://github.com/tianocore/edk2
</pre>

Continue to [[Windows-systems#compile-tools |Compile Tools]] and then [[Windows-systems#build | BUILD]] sections


=====For EDK II project developers on Windows with the pre-built binary BaseTools:=====
*	Create a workspace directory
*	Change to the workspace directory
*	Clone the EDK II project repository
**	git clone https://github.com/tianocore/edk2
*	Clone the edk2-BaseTools-win32 repository
**	git clone https://github.com/tianocore/edk2-BaseTools-win32
*	Set environment variables:
**	EDK_TOOLS_BIN – Set it as the edk2-BaseTools-win32 directory
Example:
* Inside Git Bash
<pre>
     $ git clone https://github.com/tianocore/edk2
     $ git clone https://github.com/tianocore/edk2-BaseTools-win32
</pre>
* Windows CMD prompt:
<pre>
     C:\edk2> set EDK_TOOLS_BIN=c:\efi\test\edk2-BaseTools-win32
</pre>


When the above steps are done, the directory structure will look like:
  efi
    └───test (WORKSPACE)
       ├───edk2
       └───edk2-BaseTools-win32

Continue to  [[Windows-systems#build | BUILD]] section

=='''Compile Tools'''==
=====For EDK II project developers on Windows with source BaseTools:=====
*	Create a workspace directory
*	Change to the workspace directory
*	Clone the EDK II project repository (See [[Windows-systems#download| Download]] section above)
**	Example: git clone https://github.com/tianocore/edk2
* Install Python27 (https://www.python.org/)  to run python tool from source 
**  PYTHON_HOME - set it as Python27 installation directory
* Compile BaseTools C source tools
Example:
* Inside Git Bash
<pre>
     $ git clone https://github.com/tianocore/edk2
</pre>
=====Compile BaseTools=====
Example:
*Open Visual Studio Command prompt and CD C:\edk2:
<pre>
     C:\edk2> set PYTHON_HOME=C:\Python27
     C:\edk2> set EDK_TOOLS_PATH=%CD%\BaseTools
     C:\edk2> BaseTools\toolsetup.bat Rebuild
</pre>


=='''Build'''==
* Set up the [[Nasm-Setup| Nasm]] open source assembly compiler
* Set up the [[Asl Setup| ASL Compiler]] 
* [[Windows-systems#compile-tools |Compile Tools]] above or download the pre-built Windows BaseTools from https://github.com/tianocore/edk2-BaseTools-win32
* Open a Windows CMD prompt:
* Change to the edk2 directory
* Run the edksetup.bat script

      C:\Users\MySid> CD \edk2
      C:\edk2> edksetup

===Build MdeModulePkg===


====Modify Conf files====

You will need to edit the Conf\target.txt file.  First, change the ACTIVE_PLATFORM to the MdeModulePkg:

<pre>
C:\edk2> notepad Conf\target.txt
</pre>

ACTIVE_PLATFORM should look like this in Conf\target.txt:

<pre>
ACTIVE_PLATFORM       = MdeModulePkg/MdeModulePkg.dsc
</pre>

Modify TOOL_CHAIN_TAG in target.txt for the toolchain installed on your system. There are many options, so review the tools_def.txt to find the appropriate toolchain for your system.  Search for 'Supported Tool Chains' in tools_def.txt to see the valid options for TOOL_CHAIN_TAG. 
<pre>
TOOL_CHAIN_TAG        = VS2015x86
</pre>



See also: [[Windows-systems-ToolChain-Matrix]] for how to change the Tool Chain Tag.

Also, consider if you want to build a different processor architecture by changing the TARGET_ARCH value in target.txt.  Please consider that certain toolchains only support building certain processor architectures.

====Build Hello World!  (and the rest of MdeModulePkg)====

Now you should be able to simply run the build command to compile the MdeModulePkg.

<pre>
C:\edk2> build
</pre>

As a tangible result of the build, you should have the HelloWorld UEFI application.  If you have a UEFI system available to you which matches the processor architecture that you built, then this application should be able to run successfully under the shell.

<pre>
C:\edk2> dir /s Build\MdeModule\DEBUG_...\IA32\HelloWorld.efi
</pre>

===Build [http://www.tianocore.org/ovmf/ OVMF] (OPTIONAL)===

Once your build environment is set up you might be interested in building the [http://www.tianocore.org/ovmf/ OVMF] platform which is included in the main edk2 source tree.  Since [http://www.tianocore.org/ovmf/ OVMF] builds a full system firmware image this may be of interest to UEFI system firmware developers.

=See Also=
* [[Getting-Started-Writing-Simple-Application]]

<!-- [[Category:EDKII]] -->